programming-guide/src/dos-donts.md, before:

# Do's and Dont's
Here I will outline some things to note before we get started

# DO make an issue if you see a mistake or can't understand something
Open an issue here (make an account if you don't have one): https://github.com/Kh4n/kh4n.github.io/issues

Please, *please* do not hesitate to raise an issue if you see a problem or have trouble understanding something. I will address issues quickly because it would be bad to have misinformation in a guide meant for beginners. As for trouble with understanding, that clearly means a problem with my guide, so after I attempt to explain it, I will update the guide to hopefully be more clear in the future.

## DO NOT get scared or tell yourself "I can't understand this" when I say something is complicated
Anything worth learning is complicated. At some point in your life, just *talking* was complicated. Now you can do it almost without thinking. The same will be true of concepts in this guide: they will be challenging at first, but you'll get them soon enough, and when you do they will seem very easy.

## DO NOT focus on the "what", focus on the "how" and "why"
This is also a general piece of advice, not just limited to your approach to this guide. The field of software engineering changes extremely rapidly, especially compared to many other fields. It may seem easier at first to just learn the "what" and ignore understanding things at a deeper level, but if you do this you will be chasing the "what" for the rest of your life, and programming will be a chore that you hate.

What do I mean by this? If you try to just memorize concepts and spit them back out, you can get surprisingly far. But it will take you much longer than if you just struggle a bit at the beginning to learn things with understanding, and then apply that understanding to understand "how" and "why" things change the way they do. You will find that many of tools and languages out there have a ton of similarities, and knowing why these exist is key to learning things fast.

This is why experienced programmers find the question "how many languages do you know?" funny: I know many programming languages, more that I can list, even ones I have not touched in years. Why? Because I understand *programming*, not *programming languages*, and languages are just a tool. It is not difficult at all to reach this level either: in fact as I mentioned earlier, the sooner you start with this mentality the better and faster you'll learn. You'll surprise yourself with how easy it is to pick up each successive language after you learn the first few.

Compare this to memorizing features and patterns in languages: these will change from language to language, library to library, and every time you want to learn something new you will have to start from scratch. That does *not* sound fun.

## DO take breaks and have fun
There is no need to read this through in one sitting (and then promptly forget its contents). Take breaks, experiment around with the code, take longer on a section you like more, etc. There is no need to be rigid. It is better that you enjoy what you are doing, that way you are more likely to finish it instead of giving up halfway through.

## DO NOT overly copy and paste
Unless I explicitly say so, do not copy and paste code. Type it out manually, every time. Trust me. It will improve your coding speed and confidence drastically.

## DO NOT learn other languages until you have finished the Python and C sections
There is a reason I chose these languages first, as I believe they are an excellent baseline for learning and understanding a very large number of existing programming languages. If you must learn something else, I implore you to stay far, *far* away from the languages I am about to list:

- C++: absolutely do not touch this beast. You do not understand it, you will not understand it, and most importantly, you will have the delusion that you *do* understand it when in reality you don't. This is easily one of the most complex and difficult to master languages ever. Don't let the two pluses confuse you: this is more than just a step up from C, it is truly advanced and deep, and filled with difficult to understand concepts while having little to no safety rails and guards. I myself tried to learn this language early on, and it was a huge mistake. I would stay far away from this until you feel you have mastered Java. I may eventually make a guide, but I am not confident with it, which is really saying something as I have been using it longer than C
- Rust: this is a great language, one of my favorites. But if you try to learn this before understanding what a language memory model is, and why resource allocation is hard, you *will* suffer. None of the concepts will make sense, and you will want to murder the compiler. Which would be a damn shame, because the Rust compiler might actually be the most user friendly and insanely good compilers of all time, but you really won't be able to appreciate it before learning C
- JavaScript: this might come as a surprise, as a lot of people say it is good for beginners, even going as far as recommending it. I sincerely believe that this is one of the worst languages ever created, especially if you consider how much it is used. It is filled with pitfalls, is not easy to set up in practice, and is all around frustrating for beginners. Stay away. If you must, learn TypeScript instead (everyone uses that these days anyway). Stick to Python for your day to day needs
- PHP: just...don't. Trust me. You sincerely have no use for this language at this point
- Any super old language (Cobol, Fortran, etc.): it is not worth your time at this point. Stick to the basics, you can always come back to these
- Haskell: this is a language that is very cool and also important to learn to a certain level, but again: not right now. Learn the basics, then come back and understand what a monad is and how you have actually been using it forever without actually knowing what it was called :)

## DO NOT get frustrated if you learn one thing easily, but the next thing is hard
Different people learn things at different rates. You may excel at design and debugging, but suck at data structures and algorithms. There is nothing wrong with that; you are not a worse programmer because of it. Just make sure you understand both, and when you are actually on the job or working on a project you will have people you can rely on that are better at things you are not so good at. This is why we work on teams. 

It is still important to know all aspects of programming, mainly because if you skip things you will never know when something you are working on is actually more complicated than you are treating it, or that you are making a design mistake that is gonna bite you months down the road, and bite you **hard**. 

Just don't let it impact your confidence :). You *can* learn programming.

Commit message:

new pages added to guide

programming-guide/src/dos-donts.md, after:

# Do's and Dont's
Here I will outline some things to note before we get started

# DO make an issue if you see a mistake or can't understand something
Open an issue here (make an account if you don't have one): https://github.com/Kh4n/kh4n.github.io/issues

Please, *please* do not hesitate to raise an issue if you see a problem or have trouble understanding something. I will address issues quickly because it would be bad to have misinformation in a guide meant for beginners. As for trouble with understanding, that clearly means a problem with my guide, so after I attempt to explain it, I will update the guide to hopefully be more clear in the future.

## DO NOT get scared or tell yourself "I can't understand this" when I say something is complicated
Anything worth learning is complicated. At some point in your life, just *talking* was complicated. Now you can do it almost without thinking. The same will be true of concepts in this guide: they will be challenging at first, but you'll get them soon enough, and when you do they will seem very easy.

## DO NOT focus on the "what", focus on the "how" and "why"
This is also a general piece of advice, not just limited to your approach to this guide. The field of software engineering changes extremely rapidly, especially compared to many other fields. It may seem easier at first to just learn the "what" and ignore understanding things at a deeper level, but if you do this you will be chasing the "what" for the rest of your life, and programming will be a chore that you hate.

What do I mean by this? If you try to just memorize concepts and spit them back out, you can get surprisingly far. But it will take you much longer than if you just struggle a bit at the beginning to learn things with understanding, and then apply that understanding to understand "how" and "why" things change the way they do. You will find that many of tools and languages out there have a ton of similarities, and knowing why these exist is key to learning things fast.

This is why experienced programmers find the question "how many languages do you know?" funny: I know many programming languages, more that I can list, even ones I have not touched in years. Why? Because I understand *programming*, not *programming languages*, and languages are just a tool. It is not difficult at all to reach this level either: in fact as I mentioned earlier, the sooner you start with this mentality the better and faster you'll learn. You'll surprise yourself with how easy it is to pick up each successive language after you learn the first few.

Compare this to memorizing features and patterns in languages: these will change from language to language, library to library, and every time you want to learn something new you will have to start from scratch. That does *not* sound fun.

## DO take breaks and have fun
There is no need to read this through in one sitting (and then promptly forget its contents). Take breaks, experiment around with the code, take longer on a section you like more, etc. There is no need to be rigid. It is better that you enjoy what you are doing, that way you are more likely to finish it instead of giving up halfway through.

## DO NOT overly copy and paste
Unless I explicitly say so, do not copy and paste code. Type it out manually, every time. Trust me. It will improve your coding speed and confidence drastically.

## DO NOT learn other languages until you have finished the Python and C sections
There is a reason I chose these languages first, as I believe they are an excellent baseline for learning and understanding a very large number of existing programming languages. If you must learn something else, I implore you to stay far, *far* away from the languages I am about to list:

- C++: absolutely do not touch this beast. You do not understand it, you will not understand it, and most importantly, you will have the delusion that you *do* understand it when in reality you don't. This is easily one of the most complex and difficult to master languages ever. Don't let the two pluses confuse you: this is more than just a step up from C, it is truly advanced and deep, and filled with difficult to understand concepts while having little to no safety rails and guards. I myself tried to learn this language early on, and it was a huge mistake. I would stay far away from this until you feel you have mastered Java. I may eventually make a guide, but I am not confident with it, which is really saying something as I have been using it longer than C
- Rust: this is a great language, one of my favorites. But if you try to learn this before understanding what a language memory model is, and why resource allocation is hard, you *will* suffer. None of the concepts will make sense, and you will want to murder the compiler. Which would be a damn shame, because the Rust compiler might actually be the most user friendly and insanely good compilers of all time, but you really won't be able to appreciate it before learning C
- JavaScript: this might come as a surprise, as a lot of people say it is good for beginners, even going as far as recommending it. I sincerely believe that this is one of the worst languages ever created, especially if you consider how much it is used. It is filled with pitfalls, is not easy to set up in practice, and is all around frustrating for beginners. Stay away. If you must, learn TypeScript instead (everyone uses that these days anyway). Stick to Python for your day to day needs
- PHP: just...don't. Trust me. You sincerely have no use for this language at this point
- Any super old language (Cobol, Fortran, etc.): it is not worth your time at this point. Stick to the basics, you can always come back to these
- Haskell: this is a language that is very cool and also important to learn to a certain level, but again: not right now. Learn the basics, then come back and understand what a monad is and how you have actually been using it forever without actually knowing what it was called :)

## DO NOT treat this as a Python, C, or Java guide
I am using those languages as tools to help us learn key programming concepts. I will not be going super in depth for any of them, and you should look online for supplementary knowledge after you finish the guide for which language(s) you want to learn. Java will probably be covered the most thoroughly, simply because we have learned enough of the basics at that point. All of the OOP available in Python will be skipped, as we are waiting until Java to learn that. Same with list comprehensions and whatnot: just waiting until we have a little more experience.

## DO NOT get frustrated if you learn one thing easily, but the next thing is hard
Different people learn things at different rates. You may excel at design and debugging, but suck at data structures and algorithms. There is nothing wrong with that; you are not a worse programmer because of it. Just make sure you understand both, and when you are actually on the job or working on a project you will have people you can rely on that are better at things you are not so good at. This is why we work on teams. 

It is still important to know all aspects of programming, mainly because if you skip things you will never know when something you are working on is actually more complicated than you are treating it, or that you are making a design mistake that is gonna bite you months down the road, and bite you **hard**. 

Just don't let it impact your confidence :). You *can* learn programming.
